tumblr(1) -- publish to tumblr.com
===================================

## SYNOPSIS

`tumblr` COMMAND [ARGS]

## DESCRIPTION

`tumblr` is a command line utility and Ruby library for working with Tumblr.com. It can read plain-text and binary files and publish them to Tumblr.

`tumblr` is driven through a group of [COMMANDS][] (similar to `git` or `rbenv`).

If you preface your plaintext file with a bit of YAML (<yaml.org>) frontmatter, you can give `tumblr` more explicit instructions for how to publish your post. See tumblr(5) for available YAML parameters.

## COMMANDS

* `tumblr post` <POST> | <FILE> | <URL>:
	Post to tumblr.
	A <POST> is a piece of plaintext, assumed to be formatted as `tumblr(5)`.
	<FILE> is a path to a <POST>. If <FILE> has a binary extension, that file will be uploaded as an image, audio, or video post.
	<URL> will create a link-type post, or a video or audio post, depending on the location of the url.

* `tumblr pipe`:
	Read from STDIN and post to tumblr.

* `tumblr edit` <POST_ID>:
	Edit <POST_ID> on tumblr.
	Will open the serialized post in the foreground with $TUMBLREDITOR then $EDITOR.

* `tumblr fetch` <POST_ID>:
	Fetch <POST_ID> from tumblr and write out its serialized form.

* `tumblr delete` <POST_ID>:
	Delete <POST_ID> from tumblr.

* `tumblr list`:
  Print a YAML listing of Post IDs to Post URLs.

* `tumblr help` [<TASK>]:
	Print the help message and the description for <TASK>.

* `tumblr authorize`:
	Start a web server and application to authenticate to tumblr and authorize the cli.
	See [AUTHORIZATION][]

* `tumblr version`:
	Print the `tumblr` version and quit.

## POSTING OPTIONS

These options are used when posting to tumblr, i.e. when using `tumblr post` or `tumblr pipe`.

* `-p`,`--publish`:
	Publish this post (ignoring the `state` parameter set in the post).

* `-q`,`--queue`:
	Add this post to the queue.

* `-d`,`--draft`:
	Save this post as a draft.


## COMMON OPTIONS

* `--credentials`=_PATH_:
	The file where your OAuth keys are stored.
	When authenticating, this path is where the keys should be stored.

* `--host`=_HOST_:
	The hostname of the Tumblr account your posting to.
	Posting and fetching posts require the hostname.

## AUTHORIZATION

Most actions of the cli require authorization to Tumblr. `tumblr authorize` provides a mechanism to authenticate and authorize the cli.

In order to use `tumblr`, you first need to [register](http://www.tumblr.com/oauth/apps) an OAuth application with tumblr.

Run `tumblr authorize` to start up server, and type in the consumer key and secret. You'll then be asked to authorize the app.
These keys are saved to the file noted in `--credentials`, defaulting to `~/.tumblr`.
If you choose not to use this default, you will need to enter the `--credentials` option every time you post.
Alternatively, use the `$TUMBLRCRED` environment variable.

## EXAMPLES

Publish a file to Tumblr.com:

	$ tumblr post my_post.txt

Or from standard input:

	$ cat data.yml my_post.txt | tumblr --host=mwunsch.tumblr.com

Make a Link post:

	$ tumblr post http://github.com/mwunsch/tumblr

Or a Video post:

	$ tumblr post http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CW0DUg63lqU

Save it as a draft:

	$ tumblr post -d http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CW0DUg63lqU

## COPYRIGHT

Tumblr (the gem) is Copyright (C) 2010 - 2012 Mark Wunsch

Tumblr is Copyright (c) Tumblr, Inc. The Tumblr gem is NOT affiliated with Tumblr, Inc.

## SEE ALSO

tumblr(5), gem(1)
